                Rules: 2026 California QSO Party (CQP)
                             Last Update: 19-July-2026 at 1500 UTC



DATES + TIMES:
Begins: 1600 UTC - 03 October 2026             Ends: 2200 UTC - 04 October 2026

OBJECTIVE:
Stations outside of California work as many California stations in as many CA Counties as possible.
Stations inside California work everyone. Non-CA to non-CA contacts do not count for QSO credit.

EXCHANGE:
1. California stations send QSO number and 4-letter county abbreviation.
2. Stations outside of California send QSO number and 2-letter State, Canadian province/territory, or
"DX".
QSO number = contact serial number starting with 1 for the first contact, progressing to 2 for the
next contact, and so on. It is unnecessary to send leading zeros in the QSO number.
How to log a county-line QSO in N1MM+, N3FJP, and Writelog. Click HERE

QSO POINTS:
Each complete non-duplicate Phone contact is worth 3 points. **NEW in 2026**
Each complete non-duplicate CW contact is worth 3 points.

 Although there is no credit for duplicate contacts, there's no penalty either, so please do not
remove them from your log as they help with log checking.

MULTIPLIERS:
A. California Stations: Maximum of 58 Scored Multipliers out of 63 Total Multipliers
(U.S. states = 50 and Canadian provinces/territories = 13).

Notes:

            •   Although there are 63 possible multipliers that can accrue toward the CA
                station's multiplier tally, the maximum number of counted multipliers
                toward the CA station's final score is 58.
            •   DX is the QTH sent by all stations outside of the U.S. and Canada, however it does
                not count as an additional multiplier toward the CA station's multiplier tally. DX QSOs
                count as QSO credit.
            •   The first valid CA QSO logged with 4-letter county abbreviation will count as the
                multiplier for California. California stations must log all CA contacts with their 4-letter
                county abbreviation.
B. Non-California Stations
Count all 58 California Counties for a maximum of 58 multipliers.

SCORE:
The final score is the total number of QSO Points multiplied by the total number of scored multipliers
(58 maximum).
QSO Points = (CW Qs x 3 pts) + (Phone Qs x 3 pts)
Final Score = QSO Points x # Multipliers

MODES: CW, Phone

BANDS: 160, 80, 40, 20, 15, and 10 meters
Frequencies:
CW: 40 kHz up from the bottom band edge on 10m-80m; 160m at 1815 kHz
SSB: 1845 kHz, 3750-3820 kHz (avoiding 3790-3800 kHz DX window), 7230 kHz, 14250 kHz, 21300
kHz, 28450 kHz.

Rallies:
1900Z: Try 10m at 28040 and 28450 kHz
0300Z and 0600Z: Try 80CW at 3540 kHz and 75PH at 3750-3820 kHz (avoiding 3790-3800 kHz DX
window)
0500Z: Try 160CW at 1815 kHz
0530Z: Try 160PH at 1845 kHz

Notes:
1. Stations may be worked once on CW and once on Phone on each of the 6 bands (maximum of 12
QSOs with any one station).
2. All CW contacts must be made outside the Phone sub-bands except for 160 meters.
3. At any given time, a station's transmitters, receivers and amplifiers must be located within a
single 500-meter diameter circle. The center of this 500-meter diameter circle is allowed to move
during the contest for the following exceptions only:

• Mobile stations
• Stations that operate from two or more expedition locations at different times
• Stations that operate from an expedition location and a fixed station at different times

4. Audio recordings and other information may be used by the CQP Chair to determine if any
station’s operation is inconsistent with any CQP rule. Entrants are subject to reclassification or
disqualification at the discretion of the CQP Chair.

Best Practices:
1. Avoid frequencies already in use by any mode.
2. Follow the WWROF Contester's Code of Ethics.
3. When calling CQ and running stations, identify your callsign frequently. Best is to identify your
callsign after every QSO, but consider the minimum ID frequency to be once for every three QSOs
made when running.
4. Spotting stations on a spotting network is encouraged, especially on SSB. When spotting, please
spot more than one particular callsign. Multiple spots for just one station and not any others is called
packet cheerleading and is not a best practice.
                                                CLASS ENTRY OPTIONS

                                                    Single-Operator
                                                                                #
                                                      Power                                      #                 Maximum
             Category                Code                                   Transmit
                                                      Output                                  Operators           Operating Hrs
                                                                             Signals
                                      SO-
Single Operator - High Power                       > 100 watts                one               one                    24
                                      HP
                                      SO-
Single Operator - Low Power                     100 watts or less             one               one                    24
                                       LP
                                      SO-
Single Operator - QRP                            5 watts or less              one               one                    24
                                      QRP
Note: Off-times must be a minimum of 15 minutes. It is prohibited to use spotting nets (operator arrangements involving any
assistance through RBN, DX packet cluster, county spotting networks, CW Skimmer, self-spotting, or live streaming). SO2R
operation is perfectly acceptable. QSOs made after 24 hours of operating time will be unscored and entry will remain Single-
Operator. Only one transmitted signal is permitted at any time.

                                             Single-Operator-Assisted
                                                                                #
                                                      Power                                      #                 Maximum
             Category                Code                                   Transmit
                                                      Output                                  Operators           Operating Hrs
                                                                             Signals
Single Operator - Assisted -         SOA-
                                                  > 100 watts                   one               one                  24
High Power                            HP
Single Operator - Assisted -         SOA-
                                               100 watts or less                one               one                  24
Low Power                             LP
Single Operator - Assisted -         SOA-
                                                 5 watts or less                one               one                  24
QRP                                  QRP
Note: Off-times must be a minimum of 15 minutes. It is allowed to use RBN, DX packet cluster, county spotting networks, CW
Skimmer and other similar alerting arrangements, but self-spotting and live streaming is prohibited. SO2R operation is perfectly
acceptable. QSOs made after 24 hours of operating time will be unscored and entry will remain Single-Operator-Assisted. Only
one transmitted signal is permitted at any time.

                                                        Multi-Single
                                                                                #
                                                      Power                                      #                 Maximum
             Category                Code                                   Transmit
                                                      Output                                  Operators           Operating Hrs
                                                                             Signals
                                       MS-
Multi-Single - High Power                          > 100 watts                   one             multiple                30
                                        HP
                                       MS-
Multi-Single - Low Power                         100 watts or less               one             multiple                30
                                        LP
                                       MS-
Multi-Single - QRP                                5 watts or less                one             multiple                30
                                       QRP
Note: The single transmitting operator cannot be replaced before 10 minutes after their first transmission. There is no time limit on
band or mode changes. During any given 10-minute period, other operators can listen, spot, or perform any other station function
except transmitting. Multi-Single entrants must have at least two different transmitting operators over the 30-hour period. Self
spotting or live streaming is not allowed. Only one transmitted signal is permitted at any time.

                                                         Multi-Two
                                                                                #
                                                     Power                                       #                Maximum
             Category               Code                                    Transmit
                                                     Output                                   Operators          Operating Hrs
                                                                             Signals
                                       M2-
Multi-Two - High Power                            > 100 watts                  two              multiple                30
                                        HP
                                       M2-
Multi-Two - Low Power                           100 watts or less              two              multiple                30
                                        LP
                                       M2-
Multi-Two - QRP                                  5 watts or less               two              multiple                30
                                       QRP
Note: The two transmitting operators cannot be replaced before 10 minutes after their first transmission. There is no time limit on
band or mode changes. During any given 10-minute period, other operators can listen, spot, or perform any other station function
except transmitting. Multi-Two entrants must have at least two different transmitting operators over the 30-hour period. Self
spotting or live streaming is not allowed.

                                                        Multi-Multi
                                                                                #
                                                     Power                                       #                Maximum
             Category               Code                                    Transmit
                                                     Output                                   Operators          Operating Hrs
                                                                             Signals
                                     MM-
Multi-Multi - High Power                            > 100 watts                multiple      multiple                 30
                                      HP
                                     MM-
Multi-Multi - Low Power                          100 watts or less             multiple      multiple                 30
                                      LP
                                     MM-
Multi-Multi - QRP                                 5 watts or less              multiple      multiple                 30
                                     QRP
Note: There are no time limits on band or mode changes. Multi-Multi entrants must have at least three different transmitting
operators over the 30-hour period. Self spotting or live streaming is not allowed.


                                        SPECIAL AWARD CATEGORIES
     Note: Stations are allowed to claim as many special award categories as apply to their log.
       Please indicate if any of these award categories applied to you by using a text editor
                     to insert any of these lines in your Cabrillo log file header:

                                              SOAPBOX: EXPEDITION
                                        SOAPBOX: COUNTY-LINE EXPEDITION
                                          SOAPBOX: ONE-DAY EXPEDITION
                                                SOAPBOX: MOBILE
                                                  SOAPBOX: YL
                                                SOAPBOX: YOUTH
                                            SOAPBOX: NEW CONTESTER
                                    A California County Expedition is an operation from a temporary location using temporary
California County                   antennas -- and operating positions installed no more than one (1) week prior to the contest
Expedition                          period -- using temporary antenna supports (however, natural supports like trees are
                                    permitted).
                                    A California County-line station is an expedition or mobile operating with all radios and
                                    antennas within 150 meters (492 feet) of more than one county and sending all such counties
                                    in a single exchange. Operators may rely on county line road signs, Google Earth or
                                    information obtained from a county surveyor’s office to determine the eligibility of a county-
California County-Line
                                    line operating location. Logs for county-line operations will be scored by individual county for
Station                             county ranking, county records and award determination. The County-Line station can be any
                                    class entry. The highest S/O and S/O-Assisted county-line score wins the Single-Op
                                    County-Line award. The highest M/S, M/2 and M/M county-line score wins the
                                    Multi-Op County-Line award. State-line operations are not allowed.
                          Stations interested in an expedition may be unable or unwilling to operate both Saturday and
                          Sunday. This award is to inspire such stations to still go on a county expedition and operate
                          for one day only. The California County One-Day Expedition station can be any class
California County One-Day entry. The highest S/O and S/O-Assisted single day expedition score wins the
Expedition                Single-Op One-Day award. The highest M/S, M/2 and M/M single day expedition
                          score wins the Multi-Op One-Day award. One-Day is defined as either 12 hours
                          operating maximum on Saturday (Pacific Daylight Time) or 12 hours operating maximum on
                          Sunday (Pacific Daylight Time).
                          "Mobile" means operating in or on a movable vehicle, independent of all commercial power
                          sources, which is able to travel at any time without having to disconnect any wiring or change
                          any antennas in order to move to another location. Note: California Mobile stations which
Mobile                    change counties or states are considered to be new stations and may be contacted again for
                          point and multiplier credit. Note: The California Mobile station which makes the most
                          total QSOs during CQP wins the Mobile award.
                          Only YLs entering in the Single-Operator or Single-Operator-Assisted classes are eligible for
YL Operator               the YL Operator award; those working as part of Multi-Operator teams are not eligible.
                          A Youth Operator is an operator who is younger than 18 years old in his/her local time zone
                          on the last day of the contest. Only Youth Operators entering in the Single-Operator or
Youth Operator            Single-Operator-Assisted classes are eligible for the Youth Operator award; those working as
                          part of Multi-Operator teams are not eligible.
                          Open to any Single-Operator or Single-Operator Assisted station that meets one condition
                          below:
                          Either
                          a) Newly licensed: Obtained amateur radio license 3 years or less, prior to the start of CQP.
New Contester             Or
                          b) New to contesting: Never submitted a log with 100 or more QSOs in any contest.

                                 A minimum of 50 QSOs must be made in CQP to qualify for this award. An operator may only
                                 win this award once.


                                              FUN CHALLENGES

There are four fun challenges that run concurrently with the main CQP event. These side contests are intended
to inspire additional motivation by participants and highlight recognition of participants in worthy areas. Unique
awards will be offered to the winners of these challenges. Participants do not need to sign up for any of these
challenges before CQP.

• Tme Challenge
• POTA Challenge
• Video Challenge
• Sunday Challenge

Complete rules for all Fun Challenges can be found HERE.

                                            CLUB COMPETITION

Complete Rules for Club Competition can be found on the Club Competition page located HERE.


                                           LOGGING SOFTWARE
Please visit the CQP Software Page.


                                                  ENTRIES

Please submit your log by either one of the following methods.


                                  Option                              Comment                        Link



                                                                 Preferred Method
                            1. Use The CQP                     Please use this form
                         Log Submission Form                   if at all possible. It's
                                                                         easy.




                         2. Email Your Log As                     Please consider
                             Attachment                           Option 1 First.



NOTES:
1. Logs are due by 2359 UTC on Monday, October 19, 2026. Logs must be submitted electronically
in Cabrillo format – paper, Excel, and ADIF logs are NOT acceptable.
2. If you need to correct something in your log, you can resubmit it. The last version of your log received before
the log submission deadline will be considered "your official" log. . If you have any difficulty with either
submission method, please email a description of the problem to: info@cqp.org.
3. Regardless of the method you use to submit your log, it is your responsibility to check our Logs
Received page and verify that it has been listed. You can check the CQP Logs Received server
here: robot.cqp.org The server is updated daily.
4. By submitting a log the submitter agrees that the log is a public document which may be released at the
discretion of the Contest Sponsor.

                                                  AWARDS

See the CQP Awards Page for a complete list of Awards and Sponsors.


                                              CERTIFICATES
All entries will be able to print out a Certificate of Achievement.

                             CQP is sponsored by the Northern California Contest Club
