Announcing the 2025 Illinois QSO Party
Sponsored by the Western Illinois Amateur Radio Club
Date/Time: 1700 UTC October 19, 2025 to 0100 UTC October 20, 2025
Bands: 160 through 2 meters, excluding WARC bands (60, 30, 17 and 12 meters)
Exchange: IL stations give RS/T and county; others give RS/T and state, province or
country
Scoring: Phone QSO: 1 point; CW/digital QSO 2 points. No repeater QSOs. All stations
are limited to one transmitted signal at a time. (But see new “Unlimited” category below).
SO2R operation is permitted. Stations may be worked once per band and mode (phone
and CW/digital) and once per band/mode/county for IL Mobile and Rover stations. Each
Mobile or Rover vehicle is considered one station and must use only one call. Contacts
with/by stations at the border of 2/3/4 counties count as 2/3/4 counties and 2/3/4 QSOs.
IL stations multiply points by the sum of IL counties, US states, VE provinces and DXCC
countries (maximum 5) worked. Canada, KH6 and KL7 do not count as DX entities.
Additional DX contacts count for points but not multipliers. Non-IL stations multiply
points by the number of IL counties worked.
Note on digital modes: NEW….NOTE!! Due to the complexity of creating a log entry
conforming to ILQP log submission rules, FT4 and FT8 contacts will receive no contact
credit. Other digital modes are encouraged.
NEW FOR 2025: BONUS STATIONS!!
The sponsoring club of ILQP is the Western Illinois ARC, which is authorized to use two
callsigns: W9AWE (the historical call) and W9OAB (the call of a long-time member and
benefactor). Both of these calls will be used during the 2025 event, and any entrant
contacting these stations will have a 100 point bonus added to the final score. Total of
200 points possible. W9AWE will be primarily CW, W9OAB will be primarily phone.
Entry Classes:
      IL Fixed Station, High Power. Permanent station location, single county,
transmitter power exceeding 100 watts PEP. (Note change…was 200 watts PEP)
      IL Fixed Station, Low Power. Permanent station location, single county,
transmitter power not to exceed 100 watts PEP. (Note change….was 200 watts PEP)
       Illinois Portable: Not a permanent station location; antennas erected for the
purpose of the contest; may be on a county line or corner. (NOTE: County lines
established by waterways may not be activated for ILQP).
       Illinois Mobile: Station capable of motion while operating though may be
stationary. Entrants are encouraged to utilize a separate driver and choose operating
procedures with safety uppermost in mind! Mobile entrants may operate from only one
county at a time. Simultaneous operation from multiple counties will result in
reclassification as a “Rover”.
       Illinois Rover: Station operating from more than one non-permanent location.
Single-county, county line and county corner operations are permitted. Any type of
mobile or portable antennas may be used. Any power source may be used (auto,
generator or commercial mains). Rover stations may operate when moving or stopped.
      Outside Illinois, High Power: Any fixed, portable or mobile station operating from
outside the state of Illinois with transmitter power exceeding 100 watts PEP (Note
change: was 200 watts)
      Outside Illinois, Low Power: Any fixed, portable or mobile station operating from
outside the state of Illinois with a transmitter power not exceeding 100 watts PEP (Note
change: was 200 watts).
QRP competition: A QRP entrant shall certify that the operation was with transmitter
power at all times not exceeding 5 watts by indicating QRP in the entry class in the
Cabrillo file or checking the QRP box on the summary sheet.
Unlimited: (New category) Stations wishing to employ multiple transmitted signals
simultaneously at a single site may enter as “Unlimited”. This class is created as an
experiment to encourage groups to train new operators and allow several the opportunity
to participate.
Spotting: Spotting of stations worked, especially mobile and rover stations, is
encouraged. All categories of entrants are allowed to self-spot. (Change from previous
years.)
Awards:
       Plaques will be awarded to the highest-scoring IL Fixed Station High Power, IL
Fixed Station Low Power, IL Mobile, IL Rover, IL Portable, 2-County Line Portable,
Outside IL High Power and Outside IL Low Power stations and Unlimited. Plaques will
also be awarded, regardless of entry class or station location, to the stations making the
highest number of raw phone QSOs, raw cw QSOs and raw mixed-mode QSOs.
       Certificates will be awarded to the 2nd through 5th place IL Fixed Stations High
Power, the 2nd through 5th place IL Fixed Stations Low Power, 2nd through 5th place IL
Mobiles, 2nd through 5th place IL Rovers, the top IL and Outside IL QRP entrants, the top 3
IL single-county portables, 2nd and 3rd place IL 2-county portables, top 3 IL 3-county
portables, top 3 IL 4-county portables, 2nd and 3rd place Unlimited entries and the highest-
scoring (reporting at least 25 contacts) stations in each US State, VE province and DXCC
country.
      As certificates are delivered in electronic format via e-mail, all entrants are
requested to provide a valid e-mail address in the Cabrillo file or on the summary sheet.
        Illinois Club Competition: Illinois entrants are encouraged to include the name of
their local club on their entries.
      ILQP Outstanding Achievement Award: Non-IL stations working at least 200
contacts or 75 IL counties will receive a special certificate.
Logs: All entrants who use computerized logging are required to submit logs in
electronic format. Do NOT submit a computer-printed log from a logging program
without also providing the electronic file (Cabrillo file), as the scoring and verification
process starts by transferring all log data into a master Excel file. Hand-written paper
logs accompanied by an official ILQP summary sheet will be accepted for transcription
by the ILQP committee. Those who submit paper logs absolve the committee of all
responsibility for miscopied log information. (See below)
        Electronic logs: Cabrillo format is preferred. Those entrants using a program that
does not provide Cabrillo files for submission should contact the committee concerning
acceptable formatting. Use of the fill-in Excel file available on the ILQP site
https://w9awe.org/ilqp/ under Sample_Excel_Log is encouraged for non-Cabrillo logs.
Electronic logs should be sent as attachments to n9jf@arrl.net.
Please do NOT send .adi nor .adif files!
When you attach your log file, check to see that it is the right file. Every year we get a
few logs for CQWW, NYQP, and other contests.
Logs that do not comply with submission requirements will be classified as Check Logs
and will not be eligible for awards.
Paper Logs; A paper log shall be hand-written and indicate, for each contact, the
entrant’s QTH, band, mode, UTC, and the call and location of the station worked. Paper
log submissions must be accompanied by a completed ILQP Summary Sheet (can be
downloaded from https://w9awe.org/ilqp/ ILQP Summary Sheet, printed from the website
or requested (with SASE) from the sponsor. Paper logs should be mailed to WIARC,
POBox 3132, Quincy IL 62305-3132. The committee is not responsible for transcription
errors.
Submission Deadline: NEW LOG DEADLINE!!! Logs sent by e-mail must be received by
the sponsor, and paper logs postmarked by midnight Central Time November 5, 2025. A
list of all logs received will be posted to the ILQP webpage. Electronic logs submitted
will be acknowledged by return e-mail within 48 hours. Entrants assume responsibility
for contacting the sponsor if they do not receive confirmation or if their call is not
included in the “logs received” listing on the website.
Disqualification: Participants are expected to follow good amateur practices, conform to
the DX Code of Ethics and operate within their license privileges and in accordance with
ILQP rules. Compelling evidence to the contrary may serve as grounds for
disqualification. Decisions of the ILQP Committee shall be final.
Rules, summary sheet, and other information are available at https://w9awe.org/ilqp/.
You are invited to join the ILQP reflector at http://mailman.qth.net/mailman/listinfo/ilqso.
Miscellaneous:
County Name Abbreviations: Participants are reminded that a proper log record of a
contact with an Illinois station in this event requires the name of the Illinois County
where that station is located be entered as part of each QSO record. It is quite acceptable
to enter either the complete and correctly spelled county name or the unique abbreviated
form of the county name.
To facilitate the use of abbreviations, a list of recommended Illinois County name
abbreviations is included every year as part of the ILQP Summary sheet (and in the list
on the website). Each Illinois county has an established 4 letter abbreviation (Lee County
excepted) shown in this list which has been in use in this event for many years. PLEASE
PRINT OUT THIS LIST OF OFFICIAL ABBREVIATIONS AHEAD OF TIME AND HAVE IT AT
YOUR OPERATING POSITION!
Unfortunately, logs are submitted every year with all manner of variation and corruption
of these abbreviations. In the past the ILQP Committee has been very lenient in not
busting QSO’s due to the use of a non-standard abbreviation as long as there is some
unambiguous clue in the abbreviation used as to the actual county name. In some cases,
we even find that the wrong county name has been used. This often involves White
(WHIT) and Whiteside (WTSD) counties as well as Mason (MASN) and Macon (MACN)
counties. The ILQP Committee asks that each entrant review the list of county name
abbreviations on the summary sheet and use only these abbreviations in their log entries
and to make sure the correct abbreviation for a given county is used. As mentioned,
there has been great leniency in the past for the use of highly corrupted, widely varying
or totally incorrect abbreviations. However, as this event is now generating a master log
each year of nearly 50,000 QSO’s, manual intervention by committee members in the
scoring process is becoming tedious and time consuming. And so, a word to the wise, in
the future, this leniency will not be continued as a part of the scoring process.
QSO Record Minimum Data: Each entrant is asked to review their log file prior to
submission to ensure that every QSO record (i.e. each line) includes the following
minimum data: operating frequency or band; operating mode; UTC date; UTC time; the
call sign of your station; the RS(T) sent; the location of your station; the call sign of the
station contacted; the RS(T) received; and the location of the station contacted. In
addition, in a Cabrillo log file, each record should include the following data: ‘QSO:’ in
the first field of each line. Please examine the sample excel spreadsheet generated
Cabrillo file that is available for download on the WIARC ILQP web page. Also please
review the sample log file at the end of the document for help in determining compliance
with the preferred format. Cabrillo File Header Information: Prior to submitting a log file,
entrants should review the information contained in the header field of their Cabrillo file
to make sure it is complete and accurate. In particular, make sure entry class, personal
information, call sign, station location, and club affiliation are correctly shown. The
header information is automatically pulled and used by the processing software. Please
examine the sample excel spreadsheet generated Cabrillo file that is available for
download son the WIARC ILQP web page.
