Kansas QSO Party — 2026 Rules
Source: https://ksqsoparty.org/rules/KSQPRules2026.pdf
Fetched: 2026-07-25

                     2026 Kansas QSO Party Rules
             29 Aug 2026 1400 – 0200 UTC              30 Aug 2026 1400 – 2000 UTC
                  Saturday 9-9 CDT                          Sunday 9-3 CDT

2026 Highlights
      Spell KANSAS, QSOPARTY, SUNFLOWER and YELLOWBRICKROAD as you work our 1x1
       call operators to earn antique radio stamps and fill your certificate. Plaques, monogrammed
       sweatshirts, zippered hoodies and T-shirts continue as part of the prize package. Earn a Kansas
       QSO Party radio stamp T-Shirt monogrammed with your call by collecting all nine of our antique
       stamps! The Kansas QSO Party continues as part of the State QSO Party Challenge.
      The Rover category is now divided up into Rover CW, Rover SSB, and Rover Mixed
       categories. Read all the category definitions carefully to see which category fits your operation.
      Border States (CO NE MO OK) is added as an official category as introduced last year.
      Strategy hint: Check out last year’s results to find categories with only a few or no entries.
       Thanks to our extraordinary sponsors, all awards are sponsored, so you’ll win the award even if
       you’re the only entry! For example, the Youth category last year had no out-of-state entries.
      Find 1x1 calls to work for the 1x1 Challenge Award on the 1x1 Operators page and on the
       Kansas QSO Party Hub spotting page. See the KSQP web site home page for links and details.

OBJECT
Stations outside of Kansas work as many Kansas stations in as many Kansas counties as
possible. Stations in Kansas work everyone.

EXCHANGE
Kansas stations send signal report and county. Stations outside of Kansas send signal
report and state, Canadian province, or DX. See below for special FT4/8 category rules.

QSO POINTS
Stations may be worked once on Phone, once on CW and once on RTTY per band/mode.
Complete non-duplicate Phone contacts are worth 2 points, complete non-duplicate CW or
RTTY contacts are worth 3 points. See below for special FT4/8 category rules.

MULTIPLIERS
Multipliers are counted only once. All stations log Kansas contacts with 3-character county
abbreviations. Log all other contacts with 2-character abbreviations. Use abbreviation DX
for stations outside of the United States and Canada. The KS abbreviation is not used.

Kansas Stations – maximum of 64 multipliers including:
   US states (50) – The first Kansas county logged counts as the Kansas multiplier.
   Canadian provinces/territories (13) – AB BC MB NB NL NT NS NU ON PE QC SK YT
   DX (1)
Non-Kansas Stations – maximum of 105 Kansas county multipliers
SCORE and BONUS STATION
All stations receive a one-time bonus of 100 points for contacting KS0KS – the club call
of the Santa Fe Trail ARC. All bonus station contacts also count for QSO credit.

Total score = ( QSO points x multipliers ) + bonus points (maximum 100)

FREQUENCIES
Contact stations on 80, 40, 20, 15, 10 and 6 meters. WARC band contacts and contacts
using repeaters, digipeaters or the internet do not count. All contacts must be simplex.

Suggested frequencies (recommend staying in the General parts of the bands):
   HF CW - 40 kHz up from band edge (mobile window 35-40)
   HF Phone - 3840, 7190 for DX/7240, 14240, 21340, 28440
   HF RTTY/Digital/VHF - around customary calling frequencies

ENTRY CATEGORIES ( Select one plus optional FT4/8 category )
                 ( * select CW, SSB or MIXED )
       Single-Op High Power * - greater than 100W, one transmitted signal
       Single-Op Low Power * - 100W max, one transmitted signal
        Single-Op QRP - 5W max, one transmitted signal
       Multi-Op - not a club, any legal power, multi/multi allowed, one location
       Youth - any legal power, Single-Op or Multi-Op, one transmitted signal (see below)
       Kansas Club - club, any legal power, multi/multi distributed ops OK (see below)
       Kansas Mobile Single-Op * - 100W max, one transmitted signal
       Kansas Mobile Multi-Op - 100W max, one transmitted signal, any mode
       Kansas Mobile Unlimited - more than 100W and/or multi/multi, any mode
       Kansas Portable - any legal power, multi/multi allowed (see below)
       Kansas Expedition - any legal power, multi/multi allowed (see below)
       Kansas Rover * - 100W max, Single-Op or Multi-Op (see below)
       Canada - any legal power, one transmitted signal, Single-Op only
       DX - any legal power, one transmitted signal, Single-Op only
        FT4/8 Single-Op, 100W max, one transmitted signal (see below)

MISCELLANEOUS
   1.  Kansas stations should call CQ Kansas QSO Party, CQ KQP or CQ KSQP.
   2.  Stations calling Kansas should call CQ Kansas or CQ KS.
   3.  Kansas mobile, rover or portable stations should ID with county (ex: w0bh/MCP).
   4.  1x1 stations must ID with your actual callsign at least once an hour as per FCC regulations.
   5.  The use of spotting nets using DX clusters, packet nodes, telephone, or other means is
       permissible for all entry categories.
   6. CW contacts must be made in the CW portion of the band. No cross-mode contacts.
   7. Kansas Mobile is a station that is self-contained and capable of legal motion while
       operating (road, water, or air), motion optional. County-line operations are allowed.
   8. Kansas Rover is a low-power fixed operation at more than two locations. Antennas may
       be set up or attached to a vehicle, but operating in motion is not allowed. County-line
       operations are allowed. This category is for operators who drive from one location to
       another, then stop and operate.
   9. All Mobile and Rover categories may use an additional driver. Operator safety is our highest
       priority. Instead of operating while driving, consider the Rover category.
   10. Kansas stations that change counties are considered to be a new station and may be
       contacted again for point and multiplier credit.
   11. If a Kansas station is on a county line between two or more Kansas counties, a separate
       QSO must be logged for each county. Don’t log multiple-county QSOs on one line.
   12. Mobiles travelling together may log each other only once per county.
   13. Kansas Portable is a fixed operation at one location per day, no commercial power.
       Kansas Expedition is a fixed operation at one location per day, commercial power.
       Antennas may be set up for the operation (Field Day style) or attached to a vehicle. The
       location may be the same each day. County line operations are allowed.
   14. Kansas Club stations represent a Kansas amateur radio club. Operations may optionally
       be distributed over multiple member locations. Simultaneous transmissions on the same
       band/mode are not allowed. Turn in one combined log.
   15. Youth category is for youth ages 17 and under. One or more youth operators may be
       assisted by a control operator if they are unlicensed. Please encourage young hams!
   16.  FT4/8 Log grid square. You may turn in a combination of FT4 and FT8 contacts. The
       same station may be worked once on FT4 and once on FT8 per band/county. Turn in a
       separate log (text file, ADIF or Cabrillo format) named YOURCALL_FT.LOG.
       In-state and out-of-state winners will be determined by counting non-duplicate contacts (no
       multipliers). Don’t include FT4/8 contacts in your regular KSQP log.

ENTRIES
Only one entry per call sign is allowed plus one FT4/8 entry. Be sure to include your
call sign, name, address, location, entry category and email address. If you qualify as a
Kansas Rookie, please note that as well. Distributed Club logs and Kansas Mobile,
Rover, Portable and Expedition logs should be combined into one log file for submittal.

The Kansas QSO Party is part of the State QSO Party Challenge. More information may be
found at http://stateqsoparty.com. All participants are encouraged to submit your score
and comments to the 3830 Reflector: www.3830scores.com as part of this Challenge. To
be eligible for a Kansas QSO Party award, you also need to submit a log to the Kansas
QSO Party as shown below. Please submit a log regardless of your score!

Incomplete or improperly logged contacts will be removed during log-checking. Please do
not remove duplicates as they may be used to prove the integrity of other logs. Duplicate
QSOs are not counted for points and do not result in penalties.

Name your electronic log(s) with your call sign (ex: W0BH.LOG, W0BH_FT.LOG).

Method 1 (preferred) – Upload your Cabrillo format log (except FT4/8) to:

               https://ksqp.contesting.com/ksqpsubmitlog.php.

      You’ll get immediate confirmation and our Logs Received page will be updated.

Method 2 – Attach your (FT4/8) log file to an email with your call sign in the Subject line.
Send the email to logs@ksqsoparty.org. For a non-FT4/8 Cabrillo log, use Method 1.

Method 3 - Paper logs, or logs on electronic media may be submitted via postal mail to:
Kansas QSO Party, c/o Bob Harder, W0BH, PO Box 746, Hesston KS 67062.




                      The deadline for log submission is October 1.
AWARDS (33 categories)
                                                Portable
                  Single-Op                    Expedition
          Power              Multi-Op            Mobile     Youth Canada DX      FT     Club
                CW/SSB/Mixed
                                                 Rover
           High          1-3
 Non-      Low           4-6           15         na         27     29      30   31      na
  KS       QRP            7
           High         8-10
  KS       Low         11-13           16        17-26       28     na      na   32      33
           QRP           14


First Place – Choice of a plaque or sweatshirt monogrammed with your call will be
awarded to First-place entries with 50 or more contacts. Multi-Op and Club categories
receive a plaque. There is no minimum contact requirement for the FT4/8 category.

Second and Third Place – A Kansas QSO Party T-Shirt monogrammed with your call will
be awarded to all Single-Op Second-place and Third-place entries, sponsors and 1x1 call
operators who don’t already have one. Multi-Op and Club station operators, international
stations and stations who already have a T-shirt earn our certificate / stamp award.

Kansas QSO Party Sunday Award - This plaque or monogrammed sweatshirt is awarded
for the highest Sunday (Day 2) score by an out-of-state Single-Op participant who didn’t
win a category. All logs at any power level will be rescored after Saturday (Day 1) contacts
are removed. You may participate on both days and still be eligible for this award.

Worked All Kansas Award - A plaque or monogrammed sweatshirt will be awarded to any
station contacting all 105 counties.

Kansas Rookie Award - This plaque or monogrammed sweatshirt is awarded at the
discretion of the Coordinator to a first-time Kansas QSO Party participant in a Single-Op
category or operation.

Kansas Sunflower Award Bonus Drawing
Every non-winning Kansas log (minimum 25 contacts) receives one entry and every non-
winning non-Kansas log receives one entry for each unique 1x1 call worked in separate
bonus drawing pools. If you didn’t win a category, you might still win one of our plaques,
monogrammed Kansas QSO Party T-shirts or monogrammed sweatshirts!

1x1 Challenge Award
Work the most unique 1x1 calls and win a Kansas QSO Party T-shirt or sweatshirt
monogrammed with your call. Multiple awards will be given out. Eligible stations are non-
Kanas stations who do not otherwise win an award.




Entry submission implies that the contestant agrees to be bound by the decisions of
                       the Kansas QSO Party Coordinator.
    KANSAS QSO PARTY CERTIFICATES and ANTIQUE RADIO STAMPS

   Awarded for spelling KANSAS, SUNFLOWER, QSOPARTY or YELLOWBRICKROAD
                          using suffixes of selected 1x1 calls.

    Duplicate letters in a word require two different 1x1 calls.
    Letters may be shared between words.
    KS0KS counts as a wild card and may be used only once in place of one
      missing letter.

Example spelling KANSAS and SUNFLOWER
w0K k0A n0N k0S n0A w0S            w0S n0U w0N w0F k0L w0O w0W n0E KS0KS
(Note two different A and S calls) (Note the use of the wild card for the last letter)

Our Collection Certificate, first issued in 2014, has room for all nine stamps. You only
need one certificate. We keep track of which stamps you have earned for this certificate,
not counting previous certificates which also came with some of these stamps. You will be
able to download your certificate in pdf or jpg format, and your stamp(s) will come by mail.

Until you fill your certificate, you may choose ONE stamp for the first two words you
spell, ONE stamp for the third word, and ONE stamp if you spell all four words.

To receive your stamps (and certificate if needed):
    send in a log
    send an email with your call in the subject line to kansas150@hotmail.com
    include your name as you’d like it to appear on the certificate
    include which stamp(s) you’d like in order of preference (in case we run out)
    you can earn a maximum of 3 stamps

If you prefer, we can print and mail your certificate.
Send the details above and $3 to cover paper, ink, and mailing expenses to:
Bob Harder, W0BH, PO Box 746, Hesston KS 67062 (make check to Bob Harder).

Kansas QSO Party Antique Radio Stamp T-Shirts
Stations who have earned all nine stamps on the Collection Certificate in a previous year,
who don’t already have a T-shirt, and who turn in a 2026 log will receive the Kansas QSO
Party T-shirt (US only due to high postage costs).

Collect all nine of our original stamps and earn your own Kansas QSO Party antique radio
stamp T-shirt monogrammed with your call!




                                      Final Reminder

Out-of-state stations must separately request certificates, stamps and T-shirts
earned by collecting all nine stamps. We don’t automatically send them to out-of-state
operators. Kansas stations automatically receive these awards.
                                Antique Radio Stamps

You can earn these genuine antique radio stamps by working our 1x1 call operators during
the Kansas QSO Party. Follow the directions above under Kansas QSO Party Certificates
and Antique Radio Stamps.
                         Kansas QSO Party Sunflower Certificate

A number of operators have earned all nine of our stamps and many are getting close.
Four additional radio-related stamps plus a bonus stamp are available, one per year, as
our way of thanking you for your participation. A Kansas QSO Party Sunflower Certificate
is available to hold these stamps.

You are eligible to collect these stamps once you fill your nine-stamp Collection Certificate.
Just request yours as described on the previous page.

The four American Inventors series 20 cent stamps were issued in 1983.




   Email KSQP Coordinator Bob Harder, W0BH, at kansas150@hotmail.com with
                     questions, comments or suggestions.
