                       The Fun Contest Maryland-DC QSO Party Rules
                                                                      Revised 06 AUG 2024


1) Contest Sponsor: The Anne Arundel Radio Club (AARC)
2) Contest Dates: This contest is conducted in a single 14-hour operating period beginning
   on the second Saturday in August at 1400 UTC and ending at 0400 Sunday UTC.
3) Entry Acceptance: Valid entries must be received within 14 days of the end of the contest.
4) Station Categories: There are five categories. You may only enter under one category.
   a) Club Station (Club) – A station operated by a single operator using a single
      transmitter and using a club call sign throughout the duration of the contest or a
      station operated by multiple operators using a single or multiple transmitters, using a
      single call sign (whether a club call sign or individual call sign throughout the duration
      of the contest. Both require that all stations be operated from the same fixed
      location.
   b) Rover Station (Rover) – A MDC mobile or portable station which operates from three
      or more MDC contest locations as listed in Table 1 during the contest period.
   c) Portable Station (Portable) – An amateur radio station set up in a temporary location.
      Portable stations include the same basic equipment as fixed and mobile stations.
      Mobile stations using antennas that are not connected to the vehicle are considered
      portable stations.
   d) Mobile Station (Mobile) – A station operated from inside a motorized vehicle in
      motion or parked, regardless of the number of operators or number of transmitters.
      A station transmitter(s) must be safely operated from inside the vehicle, using
      antennas mounted on the vehicle and not attached elsewhere. Power must not be
      sourced from a utility/power grid. For safety reasons, a single operator should only
      operate while parked.
   e) Fixed Station (Fixed) – A station operated from a fixed location by a single operator
      using a single transmitter with a transmitted signal output of less than 1 watt (PEP)
      to the legal limit during the QSO Party. Fixed amateur radio stations are typically
      established in a permanent structure with equipment that is not intended for portable
      operation. Fixed stations are generally powered from commercial electrical supply
      available in the building.
5) Power Categories: There are three power categories. You may only enter under one
   category. The highest power used during the QSO Party determines the power level.
   a) QRP - 5 watts or less during the OSO Party.
   b) LOW - 100 watts or less during the QSO Party.
   c) High - above 100 watts.
6) Modes: Only two transmitting modes are allowed.
   a) Phone: Any phone mode may be used.


                                        Page 1 of 8                                            v.5
                           The Fun Contest Maryland-DC QSO Party Rules
                                                                           Revised 06 AUG 2024

   b) CW: Only International Morse Code may be used.
7) The Exchange: The exchange is simple. You give your Call Sign and Location to each
   contacted station. Your location will be as follows:
   a) For stations outside of Canada and the United States, use your country.
   b) For Canadian and non-MDC stations, use your province or state.
   c) For MDC stations, use your county or city as indicated below in Table 1.


        No.   County/City         Abbreviation         No.   County/City         Abbreviation


        1     Allegany                ALY              14    Howard                  HWD


        2     Anne Arundel            ANA              15    Kent                    KEN


        3     Baltimore City          BAL              16    Montgomery              MON


        4     Baltimore County        BCT              17    Prince George’s         PGE


        5     Calvert                 CLV              18    Queen Anne’s            QAN


        6     Caroline                CLN              19    St. Mary’s              STM


        7     Carroll                 CRL              20    Somerset                SMR


        8     Cecil                   CEC              21    Talbot                  TAL


        9     Charles                 CHS              22    Washington              WAS


        10    Dorchester              DRC              23    Wicomico                WIC


        11    Frederick               FRD              24    Worcester               WRC


        12    Garrett                 GAR              25    Washington DC           WDC


        13    Harford                 HFD


                                                 Table 1




                                         Page 2 of 8                                             v.5
                      The Fun Contest Maryland-DC QSO Party Rules
                                                                    Revised 06 AUG 2024

8) Exchange Examples:
   a) W3VPR this is N3ADF in Queen Anne (QAN if using CW) county.
   b) N3ADF this is W3VPR in Anne Arundel (ANA if using CW) county.
   c) W3VPR this is AG4RR in Kentucky (KY if using CW).
   d) AG4RR this is W3VPR in Anne Arundel (ANA if using CW) county.
9) Canadian Provinces: The following are the Canadian Provinces and Territories used for
   the purposes of this contest.


                          Province              Call Area and Description
                Newfoundland &                             NL
                Labrador
                New Brunswick                             NB
                Nova Scotia                               NS
                Prince Edward Island                       PE
                Quebec                                    QC
                Ontario                                   ON
                Manitoba                                  MB
                Saskatchewan                               SK
                Alberta                                    AB
                British Columbia                          BC
                Northwest Territories                      NT
                Nunavut Territory                         NU
                Yukon Territory                            YT
                                            Table-2
Example:
             W3VPR this is VE3XYZ, I am in Ontario (ON if using CW).
             VE3XYZ this is W3VPR, we are in Washington DC Whiskey Delta Charlie
             (WDC if using CW).




                                        Page 3 of 8                                        v.5
                       The Fun Contest Maryland-DC QSO Party Rules
                                                                     Revised 06 AUG 2024

10) Miscellaneous Rules:
   a) Make lots of lots of contacts.
   b) Stations not located in the state of Maryland, or the District of Columbia may only
      receive credit for contacts with stations located in Maryland or the District of Columbia
      (MDC section) Stations located in the state of Maryland or District of Columbia may
      work stations anywhere.
   c) Club stations must operate from a single location.
   d) The use of repeaters, digipeaters, satellite retransmission, or the Internet (e.g.,
      Echo Link) is not allowed.
   e) Cross-mode contacts are prohibited.
   f) Stations may be worked only once per band per mode except as exempted by
      paragraph g. below. This means that any station (so long as one is in one of the
      locations listed in Table 1) may contact any other station on any band up to two
      times, provided a different mode is used each time.
   g) Stations that change their location from one MDC entity (as listed in Table 1) to
      another, shall be considered as a “new” station, and may be worked again from this
      new location in all contest modes for contest credit for both stations involved.
      Similarly non-MDC stations who change their location from one US State,
      Canadian Province, or country to another shall also be considered a “new” station.
   h) For the MDC QSO party, Alaska, and Hawaii count as States only.
   i) Participating stations may not count Maryland as a state they have worked. The
      emphasis is on working Maryland Counties, Baltimore City or Washington DC.
   j) Contacts made during a net operation may not be included.
11) All MDC QSO Party 2024 submissions must be made using the online submission form
    found at www.w3vpr.org/qso_party_submission_2024 and that submission must contain
    a Cabrillo log.
12) Self-spotting in any form is not permitted. Self-spotting is defined as the practice of
    sending a spot advertisement of your station's call sign and current operating
    frequency.
13) Authorized and Suggested Frequencies: Contacts on WARC bands, 60 meters, and
    VHF/UHF are not allowed. The following are suggested frequencies for use by W3VPR
    during the contest.
   a) CW: 3.557, 7.045, 14.045, 21.045, 28.045
   b) SSB: 1.895, 3.821, 7.230, 14.271, 21.371, 28.371
14) Scoring:
   a) Contact Points will be based on the mode used to complete the contact, as follows:

                                        Page 4 of 8                                           v.5
                        The Fun Contest Maryland-DC QSO Party Rules
                                                                       Revised 06 AUG 2024

       i) 3 points if the contact was made in CW mode (using International Morse Code)
       ii) 1 point if the contact was made using phone.
15) Multipliers for all entrants: The total number of all Contact Points will be multiplied by
    each of the following multipliers in sequence. (See example below).
   a) Station Category Multiplier: Based on the category for which the station is entered.
       i) 1 if the Entrants Station Category is Club.
       ii) 4 If the Entrants Station Category is Rover.
       iii) 3 the Entrant’s Station Category is Portable.
       iv) 2 If the Entrants Station Category is Mobile.
       v) 1 if Entrants Station Category is Fixed.
   b) Power Category Multiplier:
       i) 3 If the Entrants Power Category is a QRP station.
       ii) 2 If the Entrants Power Category is a Low Power station.
       iii) 1 If the Entrants Power Category is a High-Power station.
16) State Multiplier points for MDC Stations: Stations in Maryland and the District of
    Columbia earn one multiplier point for making initial contact with the following:
   a) Each Maryland County, and cities of Baltimore (BAL) and the District of Columbia
      (WDC) – 25 maximum.
   b) Each State (less Maryland) – 49 maximum.
   c) Each Canadian Province – 13 maximum.
   d) Each DXCC country except the United States of America, Canada, Hawaii, and
      Alaska.
   e) Multiplier points described in a) through d) above will be added together before being
      used as a multiplier.
17) State Multiplier points for non-MDC Stations: Stations not operating from within
    Maryland or the District of Columbia earn one multiplier point for making initial contacts
    with:
   a) Each Maryland County, the cities of Baltimore (BAL) and the District of Columbia
      (WDC) – 25 maximum.
18) Bonus Points: (MDC or non-MDC)
   a) Fifty bonus points will be awarded to each station submitting a contest log with at

                                         Page 5 of 8                                             v.5
                        The Fun Contest Maryland-DC QSO Party Rules
                                                                     Revised 06 AUG 2024

      least one conﬁrmed contact with station W3VPR (The call sign of the Anne Arundel
      Radio Club). The Fifty points may be claimed on the website entry.
   b) FIVE HUNDRED bonus points will be awarded for working all 25 MDC jurisdictions
      during the MDC QSO Party.
      i) TWO HUNDRED-FIFTY bonus points will be awarded for working 13 of the 25
         MDC jurisdictions during the MDC QSO Party.
19) Inaccuracies in form of submissions, especially ﬂagrant ones, will result in
    rejection of submission.
20) Total Score:
   a) Add the number of contacts (qso’s) made using each of the two Modes listed in item 6
      above. (CW or Phone)
   b) For each Mode multiply the number of Contact Points noted in 14.a.i) and 14.a.ii)
      above. Add those numbers together to produce the number of Contact Points
      earned. (qso’s x mode value = contact points).
   c) Determine the Station Category Multiplier noted in 15.a) above and the Power
      Category Multiplier noted in 15.b).
   d) Next, based on whether you are entering from within Maryland-DC (MDC) or outside
      of Maryland-DC. Determine either your In-State Multiplier Points, or your Out-Of-
      State Multiplier Points as applicable(Items 16 & 17 above). Consider this amount to
      be your State Multiplier.
   e) Now multiply your Contact Points times your Maximum Power Multiplier times your
      Station Category Multiplier times your State Multiplier to create your Basic Score.
      The formula for this is:
      (Contact Points) x (Maximum Power Multiplier) x (Station Category Multiplier) x
               (State Multiplier) = (Basic Score)
   f) Next determine if you have earned any Bonus Points.
      i) If you have contacted W3VPR during the contest, in any mode, you earn a one-
         time 50 bonus points.
      ii) If you worked all 25 MDC jurisdictions during the contest, you earn 500 bonus
          points. If you worked 13 MDC jurisdictions during the contest, you earn 250
          bonus points.
   g) Add your Basic Score to your Bonus Points to get your Total Score. The formula
      follows:
                   (Basic Score) + (Bonus Points) = (Total Score).
                   You are done. You have your Total Score.



                                       Page 6 of 8                                          v.5
                        The Fun Contest Maryland-DC QSO Party Rules
                                                                     Revised 06 AUG 2024

Example:
           If you make 1 phone, and 1 CW qso, your Contact Points are 1+3 for a total of 4
           points. If you used a maximum transmit power of 100 watts, your power multiplier
           is 2, and your total is 4 x 2 or 8. If your entry category is “Fixed Station”, your
           category multiplier is 1, and your total is 1 x 8 or 8. If you lived in Maryland and
           made those 3 contacts with 3 different counties, your state multiplier is 3, and your
           total becomes 3 x 8 or 24 points. And finally, the bonus points are calculated and
           added to the basic score. A contact with W3VPR would add 50 bonus points for
           24 + 50 or 74 points. Thus, you would report a total of 74 points.
21) The judges will use this same method to compute your score based on the entries made
    on your submitted entry form. This will be done electronically to avoid issues. Failure to
    ﬁll in the form completely may result in rejection of the entry form by the judges.
22) QSO Party logging software: There are several logging software programs that support
    the MDC QSO Party, which include the creation of a Cabrillo file. Here are a few:

      • http://www.n1mm.com – This free software can be adapted to a large number of on-
        air contests.

      • http://www.n3fjp.com/stateqsoparty.html – A very large selection of logging software
        is available

      • http://www.qsl.net/w3km/ -- Download GenLog for free!

      • http://writelog.com – A very large selection of logging software is available
      NOTE: You are not required to use logging software to document your contacts.
      The above listing does not infer or imply an endorsement by the Anne Arundel
      Radio Club or the MDC QSO Party Committee. Caveat emptor (Buyer Beware!).
      Use all software at your own risk.
23) Logs: All Maryland QSO Party Submissions must comply with the following rules:
   a) The participant's MDC QSO Party Log must be in the Cabrillo format. No
      handwritten logs are allowed in 2024. All entrants must use the WEBSITE ENTRY
      form to upload logs.
   b) Website entries with associated logs must be received within 14 days of the end of the
      contest.
   c) The website entry form can be found at:
      www.w3vpr.org/QSO_Party_Submission_2024
24) All decisions by the Maryland QSO Party Contest Committee concerning any
    Maryland DC QSO Party submission will be considered final. By submitting your
    entry, you agree to abide by the decisions of the Maryland-DC QSO Party Contest
    Committee.



                                        Page 7 of 8                                           v.5
                        The Fun Contest Maryland-DC QSO Party Rules
                                                                       Revised 06 AUG 2024

25) Awards: Prizes may be awarded in each category as indicated below.
   a) A plaque and certificate will be awarded to the station with the highest score in each
      category if there are a minimum of five (5) entries submitted in that category. If there
      are not five entries in a category the first-place finisher will receive an e-mailed
      certificate suitable for printing acknowledging their accomplishment.
   b) Any station ranking in the top five (5) in their category will receive a printed certificate.
   c) Any station ranking lower than 5th in their category but logging more than 10
      QSO Party Contacts will receive an emailed printable version of a Participation
      Certificate.




                                         Page 8 of 8                                             v.5
