Maine QSO Party © Wireless Society of Southern Maine




                                                                   Maine QSO Party
                                                                     2026 Official Rules


Contest Period: 1200 UTC 26 September to 1200 UTC 27 September 2025.

Bands and Modes: 160, 80, 40, 20, 15, and 10, CW and phone (SSB, FM, AM).

Suggested frequencies: CW – 25 kHz up from the band edge and for SSB – 1850, 3850, 7280, 14280,
21250, 28450 kHz. Check for CW activity on the half-hour.

Exchange: Stations in Maine send signal report and county. Stations outside Maine, but within either
the United States or Canada, send signal report and state/province. DX stations send signal report and
“DX.”

QSOs: Contacts with stations in Maine are worth 2 points. Contacts with stations outside Maine are
worth 1 point.

Multipliers are the same for all participants: Use Maine counties (16), States (50) , Canadian Provinces
(14), and DXCC countries as multipliers. You may work any station once on each of the two modes, on
each of the six contest bands.

Maine County Abbreviations: Sixteen in total, (Maine’s counties). Each multiplier may be counted once
on each mode on each of the six contest bands. The counties are: Androscoggin (AND), Aroostook (ARO),
Cumberland (CBL), Franklin (FRA), Hancock (HAN), Kennebec (KEN), Knox (KNO), Lincoln (LIN), Oxford
(OXF), Penobscot (PEN), Piscataquis (PSQ), Sagadahoc (SAG), Somerset (SOM), Waldo (WAL),
Washington (WAS), York (YOR).

Mobiles count QSO points per county. Mobiles that change counties are considered to be new stations,
and can be worked for both multiplier and QSO point credit. County line QSO’s should be logged as two
separate QSO’s.

Cross-mode, cross-band and repeater QSO’s are not permitted.

Use of a DX spotting system, including Skimmer and similar technologies or any type of Packet Cluster
network during the contest is encouraged.

It is prohibited to make CW contacts in the conventional phone sub-bands and phone contacts in the
conventional CW sub-bands. Soliciting QSOs through a repeater during the contest period is not allowed.

Final Score: The total QSO points from all bands multiplied by the total number of multipliers from all
bands.

                                                                                               1|P a g e
Maine QSO Party © Wireless Society of Southern Maine




Categories: The following categories are eligible for certificates as detailed in the Awards section of the
rules.

Single Operator High Power (>100 Watts)
Single Operator Low Power (max. 100 Watts output)
Single Operator QRP (max. 5 Watt output)
Single Operator Mobile (max. 100 Watts output)
Multi-Operator Single Transmitter High Power (>100 Watts) *
Multi-Operator Single Transmitter Low Power (max. 100 Watts output)
Multi-Operator Multi-Transmitter, any authorized power


Awards will be given for the highest scoring station overall, as well as the top scorers in category from
each Maine County, U.S. State, Canadian Province, and DXCC entity. Stations must log 50 or more QSOs
to be eligible for awards.

Category notes:

1. The contents of a log that is submitted for a specific category must reflect that category. In the event
of a conflict between the actual content of the log and the stated category in the Cabrillo header or
contained in other elements of the entry material, the actual contents of the log will be used to
determine the category of entry where possible. In the event this cannot be determined or in the event
where a log does not identify the entry category, the entry will be classified into the Multi-Operator,
Multi-Transmitter, any authorized power category.

2. Where the categories have a power class and the submitted log does not clearly identify the power
class entered, then the log will be treated as if the highest power class for that category was entered.

3. Mobile applies to car, truck, RV, motorcycle, boat, airplane, or other mode of transportation. Use of a
base station antenna, amplifier, or commercial power is not permitted. Operating while your vehicle is
parked across a county line, occupying two counties, counts as two counties and two contacts. Marine
and aeronautical mobiles must be able to establish their counties of operation. Mobile stations will
receive awards within their own category and will not be included in the individual sections.

4. Multi-Single category stations are restricted to one transmitter.

5. Multi-Multi category stations may operate on several bands simultaneously, with multiple
transmitters.

6. To facilitate the proper allocation of certificates, all Maine stations should indicate their county, based
on their actual address, as provided in the Cabrillo header.

7. Results: Will be published in The Radiogram, and on the official contest web page.




                                                                                                     2|P a g e
Maine QSO Party © Wireless Society of Southern Maine


8. Log Submission – The entry deadline for logs is October 12, 2026.


Send email entries to: maineqsoparty@gmail.com

Send paper entries to:               Wireless Society of Southern Maine
                                     Maine QSO Party Log
                                     P.O. Box 1603
                                     Scarborough, ME 04070



Paper mail entries must contain a summary sheet showing score calculation, multiplier check, and a
dupe sheet listing calls worked on each mode on each band. Log sheets must show time, band,
mode, call sign of station worked, exchanges sent and received and claimed for each QSO. New
multipliers must be clearly marked in the log. Contest entry forms are also available on the WSSM
website.

Logs shall be forwarded to the QSO party at the address listed above. It is strongly suggested that logs
be sent as soon as possible after the close of the event. It is also recommended that DX logs be sent via
AIR MAIL to ensure that they are received in good time. Any logs received with a post mark dated after
the deadline date will be handled as a check log. Any logs received more than 15 days after the
entry deadline, regardless of postmark, will be discarded.

Any entry with 10 or more contacts must be submitted electronically in Cabrillo format. Electronic
entries will be confirmed by return email.




                                                                                                3|P a g e
