Rules: 2026 North American
QSO Party (CW/SSB/RTTY)
1. Eligibility: Any amateur radio licensee may enter.
2. Object: To work as many North American stations as possible during the contest period.
3. North American Station: Defined by the ARRL DXCC List, with the addition of Hawaii.
4. Contest calendar:
Mode     Times/Dates                          Logs Due                  Contest Weekend
CW       1800 UTC Jan 10 to 0559 UTC Jan 11 0600 UTC January 18        2nd full weekend January
         1800 UTC Aug 1 to 0559 UTC Aug 2 0600 UTC August 9            1st full weekend August
SSB      1800 UTC Jan 17 to 0559 UTC Jan 18 0600 UTC January 25        3rd full weekend January
         1800 UTC Aug 15 to 0559 UTC Aug 16 0600 UTC August 23         3rd full weekend August
RTTY     1800 UTC Feb 28 to 0559 UTC Mar 1 0600 UTC March 8            Starts last Saturday in February
         1800 UTC Jul 18 to 0559 UTC Jul 19 0600 UTC July 26           3rd full weekend July
            Submit logs via www.ncjweb.com/naqplogsubmit — See Rule 16
5. Entry Classifications:
    A) Single Operator (SO):
      i) One person performs all transmitting, receiving, and logging functions as well as equipment and antenna
           adjustments.
      ii) Access to spotting information obtained directly or indirectly from any source other than the station operator,
           such as from other stations or automated tools, spotting networks, skimmers, social media, watching par-
           ticipating stations live streaming, etc., is prohibited. Spotting other stations and self-spotting are prohibited.
      iii) Use of a CW decoder or wide-band multi-channel RTTY decoder (RTTY Skimmer) is prohibited.
      iv) Only one transmitted signal allowed at a time.
      v) May operate up to 10 out of the 12 hours of the contest. Off-times must be at least 30 minutes in length. To
           count as off-time, the difference between the times of consecutive contacts must be greater than or equal
           to 31 minutes (i.e., 30 intervening minutes, during which no contacts occur). The contest period ends at
           05:59:59 UTC.
    B) Single Operator Assisted (SOA):
      i) One person performs all transmitting, receiving, and logging functions as well as equipment and antenna
           adjustments.
      ii) May use spotting information obtained directly or indirectly from any source such as from other stations,
           automated tools, spotting networks, skimmers, social media, watching live streaming, etc. Soliciting contacts
           via social media is not allowed. Spotting other stations and self-spotting are allowed.
      iii) May use a CW decoder or wide-band multi-channel RTTY decoder (RTTY Skimmer).
      iv) Only one transmitted signal allowed at a time.
      v) May operate up to 10 out of the 12 hours of the contest. Off-times must be at least 30 minutes. To count as off
           time, the difference between the times of consecutive contacts must be greater than or equal to 31 minutes
           (i.e., 30 intervening minutes, during which no contacts occur). The contest period ends at 05:59:59 UTC.
    C) Multioperator Two-Transmitter (M2):
      i) More than one person performs transmitting, receiving, and logging functions, etc.
      ii) May use assistance such as packet spotting networks, skimmers, social media, live streaming and the
           like. Soliciting contacts via social media is not allowed. Spotting other stations or self-spotting is allowed.
      iii) May use a CW decoder or wide-band multi-channel RTTY decoder (RTTY Skimmer).
      iv) A maximum of two transmitted signals at any given time, each on a different band. Both transmitters may
           work any and all stations.
      v) May operate for the entire 12 hours of the contest.
      vi) Starting when the first QSO on a band is logged, a station may not transmit on a different band until 10 full
           minutes have passed. Any QSOs made on a different band before 10 minutes have passed will not count
           for scoring. The other station will receive full credit for the QSO.
      vii) Multioperator entries are required to use only one name throughout the entire contest.


26     October/November 2025       NCJ
       viii)Multioperator entries with only one operator may be reclassified to Single Operator Assisted (SOA).
6. Output Power: Maximum of 100 W from the output of the final amplifier. QRP (5 W or less) entries will be rec-
   ognized in the results. Entries from stations choosing to use more than 100 W or entered as High Power will be
   classified as check logs. Entries found to use more power than claimed will be disqualified. Power categories are:
     A) 5 W or less – QRP
     B) 5 – 100 W – Low Power
     C) Over 100 W – Check Log
7. Mode: CW only in CW parties. SSB only in phone parties. RTTY only in RTTY parties.
8. Bands: 160, 80, 40, 20, 15, and 10 meters only, except no 160 meters for the RTTY contest.
9. Station: All radio transmitters, receivers, and antennas used by an entrant must be associated with one station. A
   station may be operated remotely. Use of multiple stations during the contest using the same call sign, whether
   directly or remotely operated, is prohibited. Entrants must use only one call sign per station operated and may
   not work themselves.
10. Exchange: Operator name and station location (state, province, or country) for North American stations; operator
   name only for non-North American stations. Each entrant is required to use a single name throughout the entire
   contest period, including multi-operator entries.
11. Multipliers: Multipliers are all 50 US states, including Alaska and Hawaii, the District of Columbia (DC), the 13
   Canadian provinces/territories (British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec, New Bruns-
   wick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Newfoundland-Labrador, Yukon, Northwest Territories, and Nunavut)
   and other North American entities as defined by the ARRL DXCC List. For other North American entities, please
   use the standard DXCC prefix for the country in the received location field in your log. See multiplier list included
   with sample paper logs. Multipliers count again on each band. Non-North American countries, maritime mobiles,
   and aeronautical mobiles do not count as multipliers but may be worked for QSO credit; these should be entered
   as DX in the received location field.
12. Valid Contact: Stations may be worked once per band. Duplicate contacts on a band will not receive credit as
   a valid contact. A valid contact consists of a complete, correctly copied and logged two-way exchange between
   a North American station and any other station. Contacts with an incorrectly received exchange are removed
   with no additional penalty. Call sign errors (bust) or call signs not in the other log (NIL) are removed and receive
   a penalty of one QSO point value. Proper logging requires including the time in UTC and band for each contact.
13. Scoring: Multiply total valid contacts by the sum of the number of multipliers worked on each band.
14. Team Competition: You may wish to form a team with fellow NAQP participants. If so, your team must consist of
   two to five Single Operator and Single Operator Assisted stations whose individual scores are added together to
   produce a team score. Although clubs or other groups having more than five members may form multiple teams,
   there are no club membership, distance, or meeting requirements for a team entry. Teams must be registered prior
   to the start of the contest. Use one of the following online forms to register your team:
   CW team registration: www.ncjweb.com/cwnaqpteamreg
   SSB team registration: www.ncjweb.com/ssbnaqpteamreg
   RTTY team registration: www.ncjweb.com/rttynaqpteamreg
   These team registration forms automatically provide confirmation of team registration by return e-mail. Inclusion
of team information in submitted Cabrillo logs is not required, as teams are determined ahead of time through the
team registration system.
15. Log Formatting: All logs must be submitted electronically via web upload. The file format for electronic logs for
   NCJ-sponsored contests is Cabrillo; see wwrof.org/cabrillo/ for details. For those participants logging on paper,
   please use the manual log entry Web-to-Cabrillo online forms available at the links below to submit your logs.
16. Log Submission: Entries must be received no later than 7 days after the end of the contest.
     A) Cabrillo-formatted logs must be uploaded via web form (use for all modes): www.ncjweb.com/naqplogsubmit
     B) To manually convert paper or non-Cabrillo log to Cabrillo log, consider using one of the following tools:
          CW: www.b4h.net/cabforms/naqpcw_cab.php
          SSB: www.b4h.net/cabforms/naqpssb_cab.php
          RTTY: www.b4h.net/cabforms/naqprtty_cab.php
17. Disqualifications: Any entry may be disqualified for illegal operation, unethical operation, excessive score re-
   duction, excessive error rates, or rules violation. Such disqualification is at the discretion of the contest manager.
18. More Information: Questions regarding the contests, including requests for Log Check Reports, may be ad-
   dressed to the appropriate contest manager at the e-mail address listed below:
   CW: Dave Mueller, N2NL, cwnaqpmgr@ncjweb.com
   SSB: Bill Lippert, ACØW, ssbnaqpmgr@ncjweb.com

                                                                                  NCJ     October/November 2025       27
  RTTY: Mark Aaker, K6UFO, rttynaqpmgr@ncjweb.com
19. Awards:
    A) Plaques will be awarded for the high score in each of the categories given below, provided there are a mini-
       mum of five entries in the category. If a plaque is not sponsored, the winner may purchase it. Plaques will be
       awarded as follows:
Mode                        Category                           Sponsor
CW                          Single Op, North America            Florida Contest Group
CW                          Single Op QRP, North America        Grand Mesa Contesters of Colorado
CW                          Single Op Assisted, North America Arizona Outlaws Contest Club
CW                          Multiop, North America              Minnesota Wireless Association in memory of Dave, KTØR
CW                          Team                                The CW Operators’ Club
SSB                         Single Op, North America            South East Contest Club
SSB                         Single Op Assisted, North America Grand Mesa Contesters of Colorado
SSB                         Multiop, North America              Tennessee Contest Group
SSB                         Team                                No sponsor
Combined Score CW/SSB       Single-Op unassisted, North America Southern California Contest Club
RTTY                        Single Op, North America            Icom America, Inc.
RTTY                        Single Op Assisted, North America Icom America, Inc.
RTTY                        Multiop, North America              Icom America, Inc.
RTTY                        Team                                Icom America, Inc.

       i) Combined score plaque recognizes the single unassisted operator producing the highest total combined
           normalized score from the CW and SSB events separately by season (January/August). Scores are nor-
           malized to 500 points for the top scorer and added together.
     B) Certificates of merit will be awarded to all participants with a final score greater than zero.
       i) Single operator certificates will display the top 20 ranking by category; call area; and state, province, or
           North American country.
       ii) Multi-operator certificates will display overall ranking for the top 10 multi-operator logs.




28     October/November 2025     NCJ
